
[Illustration:

  How to use and enjoy your
  _Frigidaire
  Refrigerator_]


=NOTE=: This book contains instructions on the use and care of your
refrigerator, what to do in case you move, recipes for tempting salads
and desserts, and your Frigidaire 5-Year Protection Plan. Be sure to
read this book and keep it handy for reference.




  It’s YOURS--for a better way of living!


[Illustration]

There’s many a treat in store for you with your new Frigidaire
refrigerator--new conveniences--new economy--new beauty--and a new
feeling of comfort in knowing your foods are being kept safely.

You can enjoy all these advantages with the knowledge that they are
yours for years to come, for your Frigidaire refrigerator is backed by
two great names--FRIGIDAIRE, pioneer refrigerator manufacturer, and
GENERAL MOTORS, world-famous design and mass production organization.
More than 9 million refrigerating units already built give you the
added assurance that you have purchased the finest refrigerator money
can buy.

This booklet has been prepared to help you get the most benefit from
your Frigidaire refrigerator. We hope you will take the time to read
this book completely. Then keep it handy for reference to answer the
questions that may occur to you from time to time.

  Copyright 1947 Frigidaire Division General Motors Corporation
  Dayton, Ohio (1621)




Where to find information


  [Illustration:

  =Cold-Control=
  How and when to adjust, Page 4

  =Ice Trays=
  How to use, Page 9

  =Super-Freezer=
  How to freeze foods and store frozen foods, Page 8
  How to defrost, Page 5

  =Meat-Tender=
  How to keep meat, Page 7

  =Cold Storage Tray=
  How to use for storage, Page 7
  How to use for defrosting, Page 5

  =Hydrator=
  What to keep in it, Page 7

  =Meter-Miser=
  What it is and does, Page 10]

  Other helpful information included in this booklet

  =Vacation=--What to do with your refrigerator when you go on vacation
   =Page  4=
  =Food Storage=--What to keep and where
   =Page  7=
  =Cleaning Your Refrigerator=
   =Page 10=
  =Moving=--How to prepare your refrigerator if you move
   =Page 10=
  =Placement=--Tips on the best place to put your refrigerator
   =Page 10=
  =Recipes=--Frozen Salads
   =Page 12=
          --Desserts
   =Page 14=
  =Frigidaire 5-year Protection Plan=
   =Page 23=

                The illustrations shown in this book may
  =IMPORTANT=:  not be of your model Frigidaire refrigerator.
                However, the instructions contained
                in this book apply to the model you have.




How to use the COLD-CONTROL


[Illustration]

Under normal conditions, your Frigidaire refrigerator will
automatically provide the right temperature for keeping foods good to
eat. However, for special purposes, temperatures which are lower than
normal may be required. These are described below. The Cold-Control
is located at the upper right hand corner of the food compartment. To
change the setting of the Cold-Control, simply turn towards you for
colder temperatures, away from you for warmer temperatures.

=For normal use=--Leave the Cold-Control on Number “1”. Even in
hot summer weather this setting will be satisfactory because your
Frigidaire refrigerator automatically adjusts itself for changes in
kitchen temperatures.

=For fast ice freezing=--Set the Cold-Control on Number “7”. This
provides fast freezing. After the ice has frozen, turn the Cold-Control
back to its normal setting.

=For freezing desserts, salads and other foods=--Set the Cold-Control
on Number “7,” until dessert or salad has frozen to the desired
consistency. Then turn back to Number “3” or “4.” This will keep it
at the proper temperature. Package foods to be frozen according to
suggestions on page 8.

=For keeping frozen foods=--When you keep commercially frozen foods or
commercial ice cream in the Super-Freezer, leave the Cold-Control on
Number “3” or “4” as long as the foods are to be kept frozen. To thaw
foods, place packages on one of the food compartment shelves for 24 to
48 hours. Remove entirely from the refrigerator for fast thawing.

=Vacation Setting=--When you’re away from home for a number of days and
foods are to remain in your refrigerator, set the control on one of the
economy positions “A,” “B,” or “C.” This will maintain a satisfactory
temperature because the cabinet door will not be opened, and no warm
foods will be placed in the food compartment. If no foods are to remain
in the refrigerator, remove the electrical cord from the outlet,
remove all foods and ice trays, and leave door open. This allows food
compartment to air out.




How and when to DEFROST


[Illustration]

It is normal for frost to build up on the Super-Freezer. This comes
from moisture in the air that enters the food compartment when the
door is opened. When this moisture strikes the cold surface of the
Super-Freezer, it turns to frost. Removing the frost periodically keeps
operating costs low.

=When to remove frost=--The speed with which frost builds up depends
upon the amount of moisture in the air and how many times you open the
refrigerator door. When the frost builds up to about ¹⁄₄ inch, or the
_thickness_ of a pencil, it should be removed by one of the methods
below.


Defrost the FAST way when storing frozen foods

When you are keeping frozen foods, it is important to defrost as
rapidly as possible so that frozen foods can be returned to the
Super-Freezer before they have had a chance to thaw out. Proceed as
follows:

=1.= Remove frozen foods from freezer and wrap them in several
thicknesses of newspaper. Place them in some cool spot in the kitchen.

=2.= Remove all trays from the freezer. Remove all foods from Cold
Storage Tray located beneath the freezer.

=3.= Turn the Cold-Control to “Off”.

=4.= Place a pan of hot water in the freezer. An ice tray may be used
for this purpose but the water should then be warm _not HOT_ as hot
water may damage the waxed surface of the trays.

=5.= As the frost begins to melt, it will drop into the Cold Storage
Tray. DO NOT USE ANY SHARP INSTRUMENT TO REMOVE FROST.

=6.= When all frost has melted and has been disposed of, reset the
Cold-Control to “4”, wash the Cold Storage Tray, place it back in
position and return foods to freezer.


Regular Defrosting

When foods are not being kept in the Super-Freezer, this slower method
may be used:

=1.= Follow step “2” above.

=2.= Set Cold-Control to ‘Defrost’ and leave in this position
overnight, or until all frost has melted.

=3.= Follow step “6” above.

NOTE: The best time to clean your refrigerator is while it is being
defrosted. See page 10 for cleaning instructions.

[Illustration:

  =Important Note=: Not all features shown in illustration
                  above are provided in every model.]




How and Where to Keep Foods


  =Frozen Foods=
  Place in Super-Freezer directly on freezer shelf or in Meat-Tender.
  See page 8 for information on freezing foods.

  =Milk and Tall Bottles=
  Store on shelf on either side of Super-Freezer. Put milk in
  your refrigerator as soon after delivery as possible.

  =Meats and Poultry=
  Meats and Poultry to be kept more than a few days, keep
  best when frozen. See page 8. Poultry should be thoroughly
  washed and dressed, then placed in Meat-Tender.
  Smoked meats may be kept in the Meat-Tender for as
  long as two weeks. Fish should always be kept frozen in
  the Super-Freezer. Meats and Poultry to be kept for short
  periods may be stored in the Cold Storage Tray.

  =Regular Foods=
  Butter, leftovers and other foods subject to drying out,
  should be stored in covered containers on any convenient
  shelf. Cheese should be wrapped in waxed paper for short-time
  storage, or in moisture-vapor-proof material for longer
  storage. Eggs should never be washed before placing in refrigerator,
  as this removes their protective coating.

  =Leafy Vegetables=
  Trim, discard undesirable portions, wash thoroughly with
  cold water and store in Hydrator. Lettuce, celery and similar
  vegetables keep better if stalks and heads are not cut up or
  portioned. Carrots, radishes, beets, etc., should be trimmed,
  washed, drained and placed in Hydrator. Tomatoes, peppers,
  and cucumbers should be washed and wiped dry before
  placing in Hydrator. Asparagus and Brussel sprouts should
  not be washed until prepared for cooking. They may be
  placed on any convenient shelf of your refrigerator.

  =Fruits=
  Oranges, apples, lemons, grapefruit, grapes, etc., should
  be stored in the Hydrator.




How to FREEZE FOODS

[Illustration: · _See page 4 for use of Cold-Control when freezing
foods or storing frozen foods, desserts or salads._]


=Freeze foods for longer storage--=

Foods that are to be kept for more than a few days--especially meats
and leftovers--keep better frozen. Many other types of foods may also
be frozen successfully. These include fruits and vegetables, poultry,
cooked foods, even cakes, pies and other baked goods!


=Correct wrapping for freezing--=

Foods to be frozen should be wrapped or packaged in waxed paper if
to be stored for few days. For longer periods use materials made
especially for home freezing. Wrap carefully, as illustrated above,
being sure to exclude all air.


=Using frozen foods--=

Frozen meats may be cooked from the frozen state or thawed before
cooking. If cooked from the frozen state allow extra cooking time. Cook
meats at low temperature. Use a meat thermometer with roasts and other
large cuts for best results. Frozen vegetables should be cooked from
the frozen state. Some pre-cooked frozen foods should be thawed before
warming. Fruits are often served while still partially frozen. For
cooking commercial frozen foods follow instructions on package.




Keeping commercially frozen foods


Commercial frozen foods may be kept for several weeks by placing them
in the Super-Freezer in direct contact with the top or bottom freezer
shelf. Follow instructions on the package for thawing or cooking.
Frozen foods once thawed should not be refrozen.

Commercial ice creams keep best when removed from packages and placed
in one of the Quickube Trays in the Super-Freezer.

[Illustration]




How to use your QUICKUBE ice trays


=To remove trays--=

Pull the tray handle downward. This will release the most stubborn tray.


=To remove cubes--=

Place one hand on top of the tray, lift tray release lever with other
hand. This will release cubes, two or a trayful as desired.

[Illustration]

Fill trays only two-thirds full of water. Keep on hand only as
many trays of ice as will actually be needed. Use the rest of
the Super-Freezer space for frozen desserts or frozen foods. The
double-width tray is especially valuable for making larger quantities
of salads and desserts.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

Facts about the METER-MISER


What the Meter-Miser is

The Meter-Miser is the heart of your Frigidaire refrigerator. It is
an exclusive Frigidaire feature--quiet, simple, trouble-free. The
Meter-Miser Compressor has two simple parts that move--so economical,
it uses no more current than an ordinary light bulb. The Meter-Miser
and the entire sealed-in mechanical system of your Frigidaire is
protected by a 5-year Protection Plan which is covered on page 23.


Oiling

You never have to oil the Meter-Miser. A lifetime supply is sealed-in
at the time of manufacture and never needs changing or replenishing.


If You Should Move

Before moving, the Meter-Miser should be securely locked in place by
tightening down completely the shipping nuts shown by arrows in the
illustration below. These nuts should be loosened before your Frigidaire
refrigerator is again put in operation.

[Illustration]


Location in Room

The closer any refrigerator is placed to a source of heat, the more
current it will use. If possible, locate your refrigerator away from
any source of extreme heat or cold.




How to Keep Your Frigidaire Refrigerator Looking Like New


Cabinet Exterior

Wipe with a damp cloth. For more thorough cleaning use a damp, soapy
cloth. Then rinse and dry well. For stubborn stains on Dulux-finished
cabinets, use Frigidaire Dulux Surface Renewer[A]--or Frigidaire
Porcelain Speed Cleaner[A] for porcelain finished exteriors. Do not use
strong gritty soaps, scouring powders or acids.


Quickube Trays

Wash with soap or warm water--NEVER hot water. Do not use metal sponges
or scouring powders as these may damage the tray surface and make ice
cubes difficult to remove.


Other Interior Equipment

Use a solution of one teaspoonful of soda to a quart of warm water.
Rinse with clear water.


Rubber Door Seal

Use water or Frigidaire Nu-Coat[A].

[A] _Dulux Surface Renewer, Porcelain Speed Cleaner and Nu-Coat may be
obtained from your Frigidaire Dealer._




_Frigidaire Recipes_

[Illustration]


STRAWBERRY MERINGUE CAKE

_ten to twelve servings_

_Cake_:

  8 egg whites
  ¹⁄₂ teaspoon cream tartar
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon salt
  2 cups sugar
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon lemon extract

Add salt to egg whites and whip until foamy. Add cream of tartar, and
continue beating until they hold a point. Fold in sugar gradually. Add
lemon extract. Pour into shallow loaf pan (approximately 7 × 11 inches)
lined with wax paper. Bake in slow oven (300 degrees F.) for 45 to 50
minutes. Lift from pan onto cake rack and cool. Cut into servings.

Serve with fresh strawberries topped with whipped cream, garnish with
berries. Fresh peaches, or tart fruit, can be used.




_Frigidaire Salads_

BOTH FROZEN AND CHILLED


· Any fresh vegetable or fruit salad must be thoroughly chilled and
served on a crisp salad green if it is to appear and taste its best.
Frigidaire provides the proper storage conditions so necessary for
keeping salad materials fresh and crisp until serving time. =Please see
page 7= for suggestions on the storage of vegetables, fruits and salad
materials.

Frozen salads are quite a delicacy and can be made so easily in
Frigidaire’s Quickube Ice Trays. You can freeze an individual salad
inside each grid of the tray--then by merely lifting the lever, the
entire grid can be removed, leaving the individual salads in the tray
for use as needed.


Fruit and Vegetable Salad

_six servings_

  1 cup shredded pineapple
  ¹⁄₂ cup celery
  ¹⁄₂ cup raw carrots
  1 package lemon gelatine
  1¹⁄₂ cups boiling water

Drain the pineapple. Chop the celery and grate the carrots. Then
combine ingredients. Add boiling water to gelatine and stir until
dissolved. Allow to cool. Then add ingredients and pour into individual
molds. Place in refrigerator to chill, or until mixture has congealed.
Serve on crisp lettuce with creamed mayonnaise. The servings can be
made more attractive by using pastry bag. Time can be saved by pouring
the mixture into a freezing tray and allowing to chill until it is
completely congealed, but not frozen. Then cut in squares and serve.


Frozen Tomato Salad

_ten to twelve servings_

  1¹⁄₂ pints tomatoes (or tomato puree)
  1¹⁄₂ teaspoons salt
  1 tablespoon sugar
  1¹⁄₂ tablespoons lemon juice
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon pepper
  1 teaspoon onion juice

Combine ingredients and stir until sugar and salt are thoroughly
dissolved. Pour into freezing tray and freeze. Serve on lettuce with
mayonnaise and chopped chives. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Frozen Banana Salad

_six to eight servings_

  2 three-ounce cakes of cream cheese
  1 teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup mayonnaise
  Juice of 1 lemon
  ¹⁄₂ cup crushed pineapple
  2 medium size bananas
  ¹⁄₂ cup walnut meats
  ¹⁄₂ cup maraschino cherries in halves (may be omitted)
  1 cup whipping cream
  Crisp lettuce leaves

Mix cream cheese with salt, mayonnaise, and lemon juice; then add
pineapple, sliced bananas, nut meats and maraschino cherries. Fold in
whipped cream and pour into Frigidaire freezing tray.

When frozen, serve in slices on crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with
fresh fruit. Fresh, whole strawberries are very attractive. See page 4
for use of Cold-Control.


Strawberry Cheese Salad

_six to eight servings_

  1 pint strawberries
  2 teaspoons lemon juice
  2 tablespoons sugar
  4 three-ounce cakes cream cheese
  ¹⁄₂ cup whipping cream

Wash and stem berries. Crush with sugar. Mix small portion at a time
with cream cheese until it is well mixed. Fold in whipped cream. Pour
into freezing tray and freeze. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


[Illustration]


Frozen Pineapple Salad

_six to eight servings_

  2 tablespoons flour
  1 cup pineapple juice
  ¹⁄₂ cup butter
  ¹⁄₈ cup sugar
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 egg
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  4 slices pineapple, cut fine
  2 oranges
  ¹⁄₄ cup nuts
  10 marshmallows
  8 maraschino cherries
  1 pint whipped cream

Make a paste of flour and pineapple juice, then gradually add remainder
of juice. Add butter, sugar, and salt. Cook in top of double boiler for
approximately 10 minutes. Then add the egg, slightly beaten. Continue
to cook for a few minutes, stirring continually; then cool and add
lemon juice. Add pineapple, oranges, nuts, marshmallows and cherries;
then fold in the whipped cream. Pour into Frigidaire freezing tray and
allow to freeze. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Frigidaire Fruit Salad

_six servings_

  1 three-ounce cake of cream cheese
  2 tablespoons cream
  ¹⁄₃ cup oil mayonnaise
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 cup canned pineapple
  ¹⁄₂ cup pecans
  ¹⁄₂ cup Royal Anne cherries
  ¹⁄₂ cup maraschino cherries
  1 cup orange sections, sliced
  2 tablespoons sugar
  1 cup whipping cream

Mix cheese thoroughly with two tablespoons of cream. Add mayonnaise,
lemon juice, and salt. Cut pineapple into small pieces. Chop pecans.
Seed and quarter the cherries. Chop maraschino cherries. Combine
pineapple, cherries, orange slices, sugar and chopped nuts; then fold
in whipped cream. Pour into Frigidaire freezing tray and allow to
freeze without stirring. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control. This salad
can be frozen in individual molds for very attractive servings, varying
the garnishings, as described. Whole maraschino cherries, nuts or whole
fresh strawberries can be used.


Perfection Salad

_eight to ten servings_

  1 cup chopped cabbage
  2 cups chopped celery
  2 pimientos
  2 fresh, red or green peppers
  3 tablespoons gelatine
  ¹⁄₂ cup cold water
  2 cups boiling water
  ¹⁄₂ cup sugar
  ¹⁄₂ cup mild vinegar
  2 tablespoons lemon juice
  1 teaspoon salt

Prepare vegetable greens, combine and place in refrigerator to chill.
Soak gelatine in cold water, then put into boiling water. Stir until
gelatine is dissolved. Add sugar, vinegar, lemon juice, and salt. When
sugar is dissolved, strain. When mixture is cooled and begins to set,
add remaining ingredients. Turn into mold or into Frigidaire freezing
tray. Allow to congeal and thoroughly chill. Cut into squares and serve
on crisp lettuce. Dress with mayonnaise.


Tomato Aspic

_eight servings_

  3 cups stewed tomatoes
  1 onion, sliced
  1 stalk celery
  1 bay leaf
  1 clove
  1 teaspoon sugar
  Salt
  2 tablespoons gelatine
  ¹⁄₂ cup cold water
  Lettuce
  Mayonnaise

Cook tomatoes with seasonings. Soak gelatine in cold water and add to
hot mixture. Strain and allow to cool, then mold in cups about the
size of a tomato. Chill in Frigidaire. Serve on individual plates on
crisp lettuce. Dress with tablespoon of mayonnaise on top of each mold,
adding a dash of paprika, if desired.




HELPFUL HINTS--about frozen desserts


· No longer is it necessary to use whipping cream or prepare a custard
in order to make a dessert with an exceptionally fine texture. _Tasty,
inexpensive desserts can be made with coffee cream--with half coffee
cream and half milk--or even with milk alone._

In making these desserts there are certain points that must be
observed. Complete information is given with each recipe.


Use of coffee cream

Coffee cream may be used in place of whipping cream in many frozen
desserts by the following method. Substitute an equal amount of coffee
cream for the combined quantities of whipping and coffee creams
indicated in the recipe. After the first mixture of ingredients has
been chilled, add the coffee cream and place in Frigidaire freezing
tray until firmly frozen. Then remove the contents of the tray to a
very cold mixing bowl and whip with an electric or hand beater until
the mixture becomes light and creamy. Return to freezing tray and allow
to finish freezing without further agitation.

Coffee cream usually contains 18 or 20 per cent butterfat. It can
be used in place of whipping cream for garnishing desserts by first
pouring into the freezing tray and allowing it to freeze before
whipping. After whipping, place in the freezing tray for additional
freezing in order to hold it in proper consistency until serving time.


Freezing method

Your Frigidaire refrigerator has the Cold-Control to speed up freezing.
The directions for using it should be followed.

The best method is to set the Cold-Control at the coldest position
approximately one-half hour before placing the mixture in the freezer
for freezing. This assures colder temperatures in the freezing
compartment, which results in faster freezing and better desserts.
After the mixture is completely frozen, the Cold-Control should be
set at an intermediate position to keep the dessert in the proper
consistency until serving time. _Important Note: Please see page 4 for
use of Cold-Control._


Mellowing improves desserts

All desserts, regardless of kind or the time required for freezing,
are much improved in flavor and texture by allowing them to mellow.
Especially is this true for fruit creams, fruit salads and similar
combinations. This is accomplished by allowing the dessert to remain
in the freezing compartment at a higher temperature than that at which
it is frozen for some time before it is served. This temperature is
obtained by setting the Cold-Control at an intermediate position, as
described on page 4.


To avoid buttery taste

A buttery taste in frozen deserts is usually caused by one of two
things. Either the cream has been over-whipped or it is too rich in
butterfat. The butterfat content of whipping cream varies greatly in
different states. In certain localities whipping cream will contain as
high as 40 per cent butterfat, making it too rich for a frozen dessert.
In this case, it should be diluted with coffee cream or milk. The
standard butterfat content for whipping cream is 28 per cent. However,
it is possible to whip cream containing only 20 per cent butterfat if
it is first poured into the freezing tray and allowed to chill to the
freezing point.




_Frigidaire Frozen Creams_


· A great variety of delicious frozen creams can be made in the
freezing trays of your refrigerator. It’s no trick to make them and
by trying some of the following recipes you will find that tasty,
inexpensive desserts can be made without whipping cream.

Remember that proper temperatures for freezing desserts are just as
important as the recipe itself in obtaining the best results.


Vanilla Custard Cream

_six to eight servings_

  ³⁄₄ cup granulated sugar
  2 tablespoons cornstarch
  1 cup sweet milk
  2 egg yolks
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 pint coffee cream
  2 teaspoons vanilla extract
  2 egg whites

Mix granulated sugar and cornstarch. Add scalded milk gradually,
stirring constantly. Cook in double boiler 25 minutes or, if you have
an electric range, use saucepan on LOW or SIMMER heat. If time will
permit, cooking for one hour greatly improves the flavor and will make
for a better texture in the frozen dessert. Stir several times during
cooking process. Combine with well-beaten egg yolks. Cook for five
minutes or until thick, stirring constantly. Cool, add salt, cream.
Pour into freezing tray. When frozen remove to bowl, add vanilla, and
whip with electric or hand beater until mix becomes light and creamy.
Then carefully fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Return quickly to
freezing tray and allow to finish freezing. See page 4 for instructions
on use of Cold-Control.

[Illustration]


Fresh Peach Cream

_eight to ten servings_

  2 cups fresh peach pulp
  1 cup granulated sugar
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1¹⁄₂ cups coffee cream
  1 or 2 drops almond extract

Combine the peach pulp, sugar, lemon juice. Add the coffee cream. Pour
into freezing tray. When frozen, remove to bowl. Add almond extract
and whip with an electric or hand beater until mix becomes light and
creamy. Return quickly to freezing tray and allow to finish freezing.
See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Chocolate Cream

_six to eight servings_

  ³⁄₄ cup granulated sugar
  2 tablespoons cocoa
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₃ cup hot water
  1¹⁄₂ pints coffee cream
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Mix sugar, cocoa, and salt thoroughly. Add hot water. Heat until sugar
is thoroughly dissolved and continue cooking for approximately 5
minutes. Remove from range and partially cool. Add cream and pour into
Frigidaire freezing tray and allow to freeze firmly. Remove to mixing
bowl, add vanilla and whip with electric or hand beater until mixture
becomes light and creamy. Return quickly to Frigidaire freezing tray
and allow to finish freezing. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Caramel Cream

_eight to ten servings_

  ²⁄₃ cup granulated sugar
  1 cup water
  ¹⁄₈ teaspoon salt
  1¹⁄₂ tablespoons flour
  2 egg yolks
  1 pint coffee cream

Caramelize sugar by heating until sugar is melted and becomes light
brown in color. Add water and cook until caramelized sugar is
dissolved. Mix salt and flour thoroughly and combine with caramel
mixture, stirring constantly and slowly. Cook for 15 minutes or until
thickened, continuing the stirring. Combine with beaten egg yolks in
double boiler. If you have an electric range, merely use saucepan
on LOW or SIMMER heat. Cook slowly for 5 minutes or until thick,
stirring constantly. Cool. Add salt and cream. Pour into freezing
tray. When frozen, remove to bowl, add vanilla and whip with electric
or hand beater until mix becomes light and creamy. Return quickly to
freezing tray to finish freezing. See page 4 for instructions on use of
Cold-Control.

_Note_: Care should be given in caramelizing that the sugar is not
allowed to cook beyond the caramel state, resulting in a bitter taste.


Caramel Nut Cream

Add ¹⁄₂ cup chopped English walnuts and pecans to the preceding recipe.
The nuts can be folded into the mix after the whipping process.


Peppermint Stick Candy Cream

_ten to twelve servings_

  ¹⁄₄ lb. or 1 cup of crushed peppermint stick candy
  1¹⁄₂ cups top milk
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1¹⁄₂ cups coffee cream

Dissolve candy in hot milk over fire, or on LOW or SIMMER heat if you
have an electric range. Add salt, coffee cream and pour into freezing
tray. Freeze until quite firm, then remove to mixing bowl and beat with
electric or hand whip until mix is light and creamy. (Don’t over whip.)
Return to freezing tray quickly and allow to finish freezing. See page
4 for instructions on use of Cold-Control.

_Note_: This dessert can be made without cream, using top milk if
desired.

[Illustration]


Vanilla Cream

_six to eight servings_

  3 cups milk (or 2 cups coffee cream and 1 cup milk)
  1 can (1¹⁄₂ cups) sweetened condensed milk
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 tablespoon vanilla

Heat one cup of milk. Add the can of condensed milk and blend. Then add
remaining two cups of milk and lemon juice. Pour into freezing tray and
freeze. When frozen, remove to bowl; add vanilla and whip with electric
or hand beater until mix becomes light and creamy. Return to freezing
tray and allow to finish freezing. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Maple Nut Cream

_six to eight servings_

Prepare one recipe of Vanilla Cream and freeze to the whipping stage.
Substitute one-half teaspoon maple-nut flavoring for vanilla. Whip with
electric or hand beater until mix becomes light and creamy. Fold in
one-half cup of chopped pecan meats. Return to freezing tray and finish
freezing. See page 4 for instructions on use of Cold-Control.


Strawberry Cream

Prepare one recipe of Vanilla Cream and freeze to the whipping stage.
Whip one cup of frozen strawberries and add one tablespoon lemon juice.
Then add the unwhipped vanilla cream from the freezing tray and whip
all together with an electric or hand beater until mix becomes light
and creamy. Return to freezing tray and finish freezing. See page 4 for
use of Cold-Control.


Fresh Strawberry Cream

_eight to ten servings_

  1 pint fresh strawberries (measure after cleaning)
  1 cup sugar
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  2 cups coffee cream

Crush berries and add sugar. Combine with lemon juice, coffee cream.
Pour into freezing tray. When frozen remove to bowl and whip with
electric or hand beater until mix becomes light and creamy. Return
quickly to freezing tray and allow to finish freezing. See page 4 for
use of Cold-Control.


Maple Cream

_eight to ten servings_

  1 cup maple syrup
  1¹⁄₂ tablespoons flour
  ²⁄₃ cup water
  2 egg yolks
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon lemon juice
  1 pint coffee cream
  1 teaspoon vanilla

_Note_: If you have an electric range, use saucepan and cook on LOW or
SIMMER heat, otherwise use double boiler.

Heat the syrup. Make a paste of the flour and water. Add hot syrup
to paste, stirring constantly. Cook for about ten minutes, or until
thickened. Add syrup mixture to well-beaten egg yolks and return to
saucepan or double boiler and continue to cook, stirring constantly
until it reaches the consistency of thin custard. Cool. Add salt, lemon
juice and cream. Pour into freezing tray. When frozen, remove to bowl.
Add vanilla and whip with an electric or hand beater until mix becomes
light and creamy. Return quickly to freezing tray and allow to finish
freezing. See page 4 for instructions on use of Cold-Control.

[Illustration]


Mocha Cream

_eight to ten servings_

  2¹⁄₂ teaspoons instant coffee
  2 cups sweet milk
  1¹⁄₂ tablespoons flour
  ²⁄₃ cups granulated sugar
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  2 egg yolks
  1 cup coffee cream

Dissolve coffee in one cup of hot milk. Mix flour and granulated sugar;
add slowly 1 cup scalded milk and cook in double boiler for about 15
minutes. If you have an electric range, cook in saucepan on LOW or
SIMMER heat. Combine with salt and well-beaten egg yolks. Cook for
about 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Allow to cool. Add first mixture.
Add coffee cream. Pour into freezing tray. When frozen, remove to
mixing bowl and whip with electric or hand beater until mix becomes
light and creamy. Return to freezing tray and allow to finish freezing
without further stirring. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.




_Frigidaire Sherbets and Ices_


· Sherbets are distinguished from Ices in that they contain fruit
juices with the addition of milk or cream, while Ices contain mainly
fruit juices and water.

These desserts are easily prepared and excellent results will be
obtained when directions are followed closely.

[Illustration]


Orange Cream Sherbet

_six to eight servings_

  ³⁄₄ cup granulated sugar
  ³⁄₄ cup water
  Grated rind of 1 orange
  1¹⁄₂ cups orange juice
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  ¹⁄₂ cup coffee cream
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt

Cook sugar and water slowly for ten minutes. Add grated rind to syrup
and continue cooking for several minutes. Strain. Add syrup to fruit
juices. Cool. Pour into freezing tray and allow to freeze. When frozen,
remove to bowl and whip with electric or hand beater until mix becomes
light and creamy. Add coffee cream. Pour into freezing tray and finish
freezing. If ingredients should separate, stir mixture again with a
spoon. See page 4 for instructions on use of Cold-Control.


Strawberry Ice

_six to eight servings_

  1 pint fresh strawberries (measured after cleaning)
  1 cup sugar
  Juice of ¹⁄₂ lemon
  ¹⁄₂ cup water

Crush the berries. Add sugar, lemon juice, and water. Press through
fine sieve. Pour into Frigidaire freezing tray and freeze firm. Remove
to mixing bowl and whip until very light. Return quickly to freezing
tray and allow to finish freezing. (Vary the sugar as the fruit
requires.) See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Pineapple Milk Sherbet

_six to eight servings_

  ²⁄₃ cup granulated sugar
  ¹⁄₂ cup pineapple juice
  1 tablespoon lemon juice
  1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
  1 pint milk

Combine sugar, pineapple juice, lemon juice and lemon rind. Add the
milk and stir until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Pour into
Frigidaire freezing tray and freeze firm. Remove to mixing bowl and
beat until mixture is light and creamy. Return quickly to freezing tray
and finish freezing. See page 4 for instructions on use of Cold-Control.


Cranberry Ice

_six to eight servings_

  1¹⁄₂ cups sugar
  3 cups water
  1 lb. cranberries
  Grated rind of 1 orange
  Juice of 1 orange

Combine sugar and water and cook for five minutes. Add cranberries.
Cook for five minutes after they have reached the boiling point. Strain
and cool. Add grated rind and juice of 1 orange. Pour into tray,
and freeze. Stir with wooden fork in the tray, or remove frozen mix
to mixing bowl and beat until light and creamy. Return to freezing
tray and finish freezing without stirring. See page 4 for use of the
Cold-Control.


Lemon Milk Sherbet

_six to eight servings_

  1¹⁄₄ cups granulated sugar
  ¹⁄₃ cup lemon juice
  Grated rind of 1 lemon
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon lemon extract
  1 pint milk

Combine sugar, lemon juice, lemon rind, and flavoring. Add milk and
stir until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Pour into Frigidaire
freezing tray and freeze firm. Remove to mixing bowl and beat with
electric or hand beater until mixture becomes light and creamy. Return
quickly to freezing tray and allow to finish freezing. See page 4 for
use of Cold-Control.


Raspberry Freeze

_about six servings_

  1 cup sugar
  2 cups hot water
  1 quart fresh raspberries (measure after cleaning)
  4 tablespoons lemon juice
  4 tablespoons orange juice
  ¹⁄₄ teaspoon salt

Cook the sugar and hot water together for about 5 minutes; add
raspberries (which have been run through a puree strainer), fruit
juices and salt. Cool. Pour into freezing tray and freeze. Remove from
tray, whip with an electric or hand beater and return to tray to finish
freezing. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Apricot Sherbet

_eight to ten servings_

  ¹⁄₂ cup water
  ¹⁄₄ cup granulated sugar
  1 cup apricot pulp
  1¹⁄₂ tablespoons lemon juice
  1 cup apricot juice
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup top milk

Cook water and sugar slowly for ten minutes. Cool. Run apricots through
puree strainer. Add lemon juice, apricot juice, salt and syrup, and ¹⁄₂
cup top milk. Pour into freezing tray and freeze until firm. Remove to
mixing bowl and whip with electric or hand beater until mix becomes
light and creamy. Return to tray and finish freezing. See page 4 for
instructions on use of Cold-Control.


Lime Ice

_four to six servings_

  ²⁄₃ cup sugar
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 pint water
  ¹⁄₂ cup lime juice
  Green food coloring

Cook sugar, salt and water slowly for ten minutes. Add to strained lime
juice. Cool. Add green food coloring. Pour into Frigidaire freezing
tray and freeze firm. Remove to mixing bowl and beat until mixture is
very light. Return to Frigidaire and finish freezing. See page 4 for
use of Cold-Control.


Lemon Ice

_four to six servings_

  ³⁄₄ cup granulated sugar
  1 pint water
  ¹⁄₂ cup lemon juice
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt

Cook sugar and water slowly for ten minutes. Cool. Add to strained
lemon juice; add salt; pour into tray and freeze firm. Remove to mixing
bowl and beat with electric or hand beater until mixture becomes light
and creamy. This should be done as quickly as possible, in order to
prevent melting. Return to freezing tray and allow to freeze without
further agitation. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.

[Illustration]




_Frigidaire Novelty Desserts_


=Mousses= retain their popularity because they are so simply and easily
prepared. Whipped cream forms the base of these desserts and stirring
is unnecessary during the freezing process.

=Parfaits= are rightly regarded as a very rich delicacy. They are
served only when the occasion calls for something very attractive and
when calories can be disregarded. The parfait itself is very easily
prepared and the same method of preparation is applicable to each
recipe. Parfaits are most acceptable when served with strawberries,
raspberries or other fruit. However, flavored syrups with nuts are very
good substitutes--garnishing with maraschino cherries when desired.

=Novelty Desserts=--Many times you will want to serve something just a
little different; maybe a special dinner dessert, afternoon or evening
refreshments, or that “dessert bridge” you have been planning for
some time. On these pages are a number of suggestions to help you in
planning for these occasions.


Apricot Mousse

_ten or twelve servings_

  1 large can apricots or 2¹⁄₄ cups apricot pulp
  2 egg whites
  1¹⁄₂ cups cream, whipped
  ¹⁄₂ cup sugar

Drain the contents of can of apricots and force through a sieve. There
should be 2¹⁄₄ cups of apricot pulp. Place in freezing tray and allow
to remain for 45 minutes. Remove from the tray and turn into a bowl
containing the unbeaten egg whites. Beat until light and fluffy. Whip
cream, gradually adding sugar. Fold the cream into the beaten apricots
and eggs. Return to the tray and freeze without stirring.


Strawberry Mousse

_ten servings_

  1 pint strawberries
  1 cup granulated sugar
  2 teaspoons lemon juice
  2 cups whipping cream
  2 egg whites
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt

Wash and stem berries. Add sugar and crush. Heat until sugar is
dissolved. Strain and chill. Add lemon juice to berry mixture. Fold
in whipped cream and stiffly beaten egg whites to which salt has been
added. Pour into freezing tray, molds or individual cups. Freeze
without stirring. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control. This dessert is
very attractive when frozen in silver cups, and decorated with whipped
cream or whole, fresh berries.


Butterscotch Parfait

_ten to twelve servings_

  ²⁄₃ cup brown sugar
  2 tablespoons butter
  ¹⁄₂ cup water
  4 egg yolks
  1 pint whipping cream
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Combine sugar and butter. Heat until melted. Cook for one minute. Add
water; cook until butterscotch is melted. Add syrup mixture slowly to
beaten egg yolks. Cook in double boiler until light and fluffy. If
you have an electric range, cook in saucepan on LOW or SIMMER heat.
Chill. Add whipped cream, salt, and vanilla. Pour into freezing tray
or individual cups. Freeze without stirring. Chopped nuts may also be
added. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.


Frozen Crumb Cake

_four to six servings_

  1 cup whipping cream
  2 cups sponge cake broken in small portions (Any left-over cake can
    be used. Angel food cake is delicious served in this manner)
  ¹⁄₄ cup chopped English walnuts

Whip cream and combine with cake. This should be tossed together with
a fork. Add chopped nuts and pour into freezing tray. Freeze without
stirring. Slice for serving.

Fruit may be added to the above recipe if desired, either frozen
with the cake or chilled and served with the frozen cake. Maraschino
cherries may be added. This is an excellent way of using those unused
portions of cake and small portions of fruit.


Chocolate Cookie Dessert

_six to eight servings_

  18 thin chocolate cookies (1¹⁄₂ inches in diameter)
  1 pint whipping cream
  2 teaspoons vanilla

Whip cream and add vanilla. Spread one tablespoon on one cookie and
press another on top. After four or five cookies have been added,
lay the stack on edge lengthwise in the center of the freezing tray;
complete the roll; then completely cover with remainder of whipped
cream. Place in Frigidaire on a shelf for several hours, allowing
cookies to absorb some of the moisture from the cream. Garnish with
maraschino cherries or chocolate shot. Place in freezing compartment
and allow to thoroughly chill or freeze. When freezing, please see page
4 for use of Cold-Control. Serve in diagonal slices and add a small
portion of chocolate sauce to each serving.

_Variation_: Ginger cookies may be used the same as chocolate cookies,
and served without chocolate sauce.


Chocolate Bavarian Cream

_ten servings_

  1 tablespoon gelatine
  ¹⁄₄ cup cold water
  1¹⁄₂ squares chocolate
  ²⁄₃ cup sugar
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  ¹⁄₂ cup hot milk
  1 pint whipping cream
  1 teaspoon vanilla
  6 lady fingers

Soak gelatine in cold water. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler
and add sugar, salt, and hot milk. If you have an electric range, use
saucepan on LOW or SIMMER heat. Cook for a few minutes. Add gelatine
to hot chocolate mixture. Cool until it begins to thicken. Beat with
beater until mixture becomes very light. Fold in whipped cream. Add
vanilla. Line a mold with lady fingers. Pour in cream mixture. Place in
Frigidaire freezer to chill. When dessert has set, remove to a plate
and decorate with whipped cream before serving.

[Illustration]


Angel Parfait

_eight to ten servings_

  ¹⁄₄ cup water
  1 cup sugar
  2 egg whites
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  2 teaspoons vanilla
  1 pint whipping cream

Cook water and sugar slowly without stirring until it spins a thread
(236° F.). Combine slowly with stiffly beaten egg whites to which salt
has been added. Continue to beat until thick. Cool. Add vanilla;
combine with the chilled whipped cream. Pour into Frigidaire freezing
tray. Freeze without stirring. See page 4 for use of Cold-Control.

This should be served with crushed fruit. When served in parfait
glasses, add whipped cream and garnish with grapes, preserved cherries,
or other fruit.


Maple Parfait

_eight to ten servings_

  ³⁄₄ cup maple syrup
  3 eggs, separated
  1¹⁄₂ cups whipping cream
  ¹⁄₁₆ teaspoon salt
  1 teaspoon vanilla

Heat syrup in double boiler, or, if you have an electric range, merely
use saucepan on LOW or SIMMER heat. Add syrup slowly to well-beaten
egg yolks and cook for several minutes on LOW or SIMMER heat, or in
a double boiler. Beat with a rotary beater. Pour into stiffly beaten
egg whites. Chill thoroughly. Add whipped cream, salt, and vanilla
to custard. Add a few drops of maple extract if a stronger flavor is
desired. Mix thoroughly and pour into freezing tray. Freeze without
stirring. Garnish with whipped cream and chopped nuts. See page 4 for
instructions on use of Cold-Control.




[Illustration]




Now--meet the rest of the Frigidaire family


· The beauty, convenience, and efficiency reflected in every detail of
your new refrigerator are characteristic of all Frigidaire appliances
for your kitchen and laundry. Frigidaire products are made only by
General Motors, and these two great names give you double assurance of
advanced design, dependable performance, and outstanding value.

=Frigidaire=--for more than a quarter-century the greatest name in
refrigeration.

=General Motors=--world leader in the field of precision manufacturing.

  =Refrigerators · Electric Ranges · Electric Water Heaters
  Home Freezers · Kitchen Cabinets and Sinks · Home Laundry Equipment
  Dehumidifiers · Air Conditioning · Commercial Refrigeration=




[Illustration: _Frigidaire_

5-Year Protection Plan


_We warrant this Frigidaire refrigerator to be free from defects in
material and workmanship under normal use and service._

[Illustration]

=5-YEAR WARRANTY ON SEALED-IN MECHANICAL UNIT=--_At any time within
five years from the date of delivery to the original purchaser, we
will repair or replace without cost to the owner or user the Sealed-in
Mechanical Unit {consisting of the condenser, refrigerant control,
freezer, Meter-Miser compressor unit, and tubing used to connect this
equipment as shown in black in the illustration at the right}, or
any part thereof, provided our examination shows that such apparatus
is defective. This 5-Year Warranty applies only to the Sealed-in
Mechanical Unit. All other parts of the refrigerator, including the
temperature control and starting relay, are covered only by the 1-Year
Warranty._

=1-YEAR WARRANTY ON ENTIRE REFRIGERATOR=--_At any time within one
year from the date of delivery of this Frigidaire refrigerator to the
original purchaser, we will repair or replace without cost to the owner
or user any part or parts of the refrigerator, provided our examination
shows such part or parts to be defective._

_These warranties do not apply to light bulbs--or to any part of the
Frigidaire refrigerator which has been subject to misuse, neglect,
alteration, accident, or to damage caused by transportation after the
original installation--or to any damage caused by flood, fire or acts
of God. Service calls, other than those covered by conditions specified
in these warranties as our responsibility will be made at the expense
of the user. These warranties apply only to refrigerators installed in
the United States._

FRIGIDAIRE DIVISION, GENERAL MOTORS CORP., DAYTON, OHIO

[Illustration]

  CABINET SERIAL NO. -------------------------------

  INSTALLATION DATE  -------------------------------

  MECHANICAL UNIT SERIAL NO. -----------------------

  DEALER’S NAME & TELEPHONE ------------------------

{_Removal of the original Serial Numbers from mechanical unit or
cabinet voids this Protection Plan in its entirety._}

[Illustration: You’re twice as sure with two great names

  FRIGIDAIRE
  made only by
  GENERAL MOTORS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE ELECTRIC RANGES]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE COLD-WALL IMPERIAL REFRIGERATORS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE DE LUXE REFRIGERATORS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE MASTER REFRIGERATORS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE HOME FREEZERS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE KITCHEN CABINETS AND SINKS]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE ELECTRIC IRONER]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE AUTOMATIC WASHER]

[Illustration: FRIGIDAIRE AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC DRYER]


Pc. No. 5852704-HA-1524-2-9/48

  Printed in U.S.A.




Transcriber’s Notes

The list of contents has been put in order by page.

Any references to the locations of illustrations have been reworded to
reflect their location in the digital version.

